Last updated: 29 06 2017 by Joanne

J: I think tips 7-9 from the first section are a little bit of a stretch but if you’re okay with them, so am I!
D: Great job, just a few suggestions (see comments)

What to use IRIS for?
1. Share image files from classes
	This could be from slides, handouts. Any material you are given!

2. Take a photo of blackboard sketches
	For when teachers/ lecturers write on the board.

3. Checking output image of your coding
	If you are creating graphs whilst coding, you can make sure that the right graph is being plotted. 

4. Scan textbook using your phone
	Take a photo or a screenshot of the image. 

5. Photo of experimental set up
	If you or your teacher are conducting an experiment in class, you can have the set up described to you. We are also able to describe readings on measuring tools used (such as a multimeter in an electronics experiment). 

6. Spot your syntax errors
	Our volunteers can quickly check to see if there are any syntax errors highlighted by your ID on the screen. 

7. Colour related questions
	Even if you see well, you may still find it helpful to receive information about the colours in the images. 

8. Youtube videos
	Take a screenshot of parts of the video
 
9. Any educational content!
	Even if it’s not for class, as long as the image is educational, we will describe it for you. 
 
10. Web plug (in in the near future for all scientific content)
If you are on a website, click our “Caption-IT” button. The photo will be sent to our volunteers for a description.


How to make the most out of IRIS?
1. Choose well your subject category and difficulty level, 
	That way we can ensure we match you with the best possible volunteer that can help you.

2. Reference your image
	Where is this image coming from? Sometimes our volunteers may not have looked a that specific topic in a while and may require some help to refresh their memory.

3. Pick subject of image
	So you can remember which image is for what class if you receive multiple requests at same time.

4. Be specific on what you want to know
	 
5. Leave time for volunteers 
	Due to the nature of the images being described, it may take a while for volunteers to describe them. Please plan your request with a sufficient amount of time to receive good responses!
 
6. React to descriptions
	If you are not completely happy with the description, then ask for something to be explained. If the volunteer gave you a bad response then decline the description and the image will be placed back on the image pool for the volunteers. If they wrote something inappropriate then flag the response. If you are happy with what you read then accept the response. 

7. Complicated Images 
	Sometimes the images may be extremely lengthy to describe pixel by pixel and so some details may be left out. If you feel like the response is missing a few details, reply to the volunteer asking for extra details. 


How to interact with the community?

1. Be polite, volunteers take time for free 
	Say hello and goodbye and remember to say thank you to our volunteers for their time and help. We want to create and sustain and friendly and supportive community

2. Only educational content
	The purpose of Grapheel is to help you academically. Do not submit photos that are non academic as they will not get a response (Even if it’s of your cute puppy).   

3. Take multiple photos
	If you are taking photos of a blackboard or equipment set up or anything that you will not be able to come back to please remember to take more than one photo incase the first did not come out right. 
